NMS-12911: Create howto for writing tss plugins (#35)
OpenNMS/opennms-integration-api: api/src/main/java/org/opennms/integration/api/v1/timeseries/README.md

# Time Series Storage Integration Layer

> The Time Series Storages Integration Layer (TSS) provides an easy way to connect time series databases to OpenNMS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Time Series Storage Integration Layer (TSS) provides an easy way to connect time series databases to OpenNMS.
```

> See [here](https://docs.opennms.org/opennms/releases/26.1.0/guide-admin/guide-admin.html#ga-opennms-operation-timeseries) for an introduction to TSS and how to configure it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [the Admin Guide](https://docs.opennms.org/opennms/releases/26.1.0/guide-admin/guide-admin.html#ga-opennms-operation-timeseries) for an introduction to TSS and how to configure it.
```

Author: :+1: much better :-)

> The TSS uses the concept of plugins to be able to connect OpenNMS with a time series database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TSS uses plugins to connect OpenNMS with a time series database.
```

> You can think of it (as in the general idea) as a driver for a time series data base.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Think of it as a driver for a time series database, using OSGi bundles.
```

> In a technical sense we are talking about Osgi bundles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
Suggest deleting, as I suggest combining it into line 6.

> There are already plugins for some popular data bases that can be used out of the box, see [here](https://docs.opennms.org/opennms/releases/26.1.0/guide-admin/guide-admin.html#ga-opennms-operation-timeseries).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plugins exist for some popular databases that can be used out of the box, see [here](https://docs.opennms.org/opennms/releases/26.1.0/guide-admin/guide-admin.html#ga-opennms-operation-timeseries).
```

> But you may want to write your own plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To write your own plugin for the TSS, follow the steps below. 
```

> Then you have come to the right place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
suggest deleting.

> We will discuss step by step how to write a plugin for the TSS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
suggest deleting, as I've combined it above in line 10.

> ## Write a TSS plugin - Step by Step guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Write a TSS plugin: step-by-step guide
```

### Prerequisites

> * OpenNMS is installed, and you are familiar with it's usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* OpenNMS installed, and you are familiar with its usage
```

> * the TSS layer is enabled, see [here](https://docs.opennms.org/opennms/releases/26.1.0/guide-admin/guide-admin.html#ga-opennms-operation-timeseries)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* TSS layer enabled, see [here](https://docs.opennms.org/opennms/releases/26.1.0/guide-admin/guide-admin.html#ga-opennms-operation-timeseries)
```

### Set up plugin
You can use our [Maven archetype](/home/patrick/apps/git/opennms/opennms-integration-api/archetypes/example-kar-plugin/src/main/resources/archetype-resources/README.md) to create a skeleton plugin.

> Alternatively use an existing plugin and copy it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, use an existing plugin and copy it.
```

### Implement plugin
The core interface to implement is [TimeseriesStorage](TimeSeriesStorage.java).
Please see the Javadoc for implementation details.

> The [timeseries commons package](/common/src/main/java/org/opennms/integration/api/v1/timeseries/immutables) provides implementations of the TSS data interfaces.

Reviewer: Should this be "database" interfaces?

Author: I am referring here to domain objects. But they are not really objects but the interfaces that domain objects need to implement.
Something like a data point. Not sure what the right term would be...

> We strongly recommend to use them instead of implementing your own domain classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We strongly recommend using them instead of implementing your own domain classes.
```

The classes are immutable and come with builders for easy use.

In order to test your plugin you can extend from [org.opennms.integration.api.v1.timeseries.AbstractStorageIntegrationTest](/test-suites/tss-tests/src/main/java/org/opennms/integration/api/v1/timeseries/AbstractStorageIntegrationTest.java).
This test will mock the OpenNMS side.
This enables you to have a fast development cycle.

### Try it out

> Once you are happy with your plug in and the tests are green it's time to test it for real.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you are happy with your plugin and the tests are green it's time to test it for real.
```

> First you create the plugin bundle and make it available in your local maven repo:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, create the plugin bundle and make it available in your local maven repo:
```

`mvn install`.

> Then you enable the integration layer and install the plugin via Karaf.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, enable the integration layer and install the plugin via Karaf.
```

# Time Series Storage Integration Layer
The Time Series Storage Integration Layer (TSS) provides an easy way to connect time series databases to OpenNMS.

> See [the Admin Guide](https://docs.opennms.org/opennms/releases/26.1.0/guide-admin/guide-admin.html#ga-opennms-operation-timeseries) for an introduction to TSS and how to configure it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [Admin Guide](https://docs.opennms.org/opennms/releases/26.1.0/guide-admin/guide-admin.html#ga-opennms-operation-timeseries) for an introduction to TSS and how to configure it.
```

The TSS uses plugins to connect OpenNMS with a time series database.
Think of it as a driver for a time series database, using OSGi bundles.

> [Plugins] (https://docs.opennms.org/opennms/releases/26.1.0/guide-admin/guide-admin.html#ga-opennms-operation-timeseries) exist for some popular databases that can be used out of the box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Plugins](https://docs.opennms.org/opennms/releases/26.1.0/guide-admin/guide-admin.html#ga-opennms-operation-timeseries) exist for some popular databases that can be used out of the box.
```
Oops, I left an extra space, so it wasn't rendering properly.
